New abilities first commit (#36)
GameBrains/er-core: modules/special-rules/pages/deep-strike.adoc

= Deep Strike

`Unit ability`

> These units are capable of rapid insertion onto the battlefield via Drop Pods, Teleportation, and other methods.

Author: Removing the capitalisation is fine, but the reference to Space Marine units isn't relevant as they have their own detachment-level text. The basic Space Marine unit, for example, _isn't_ going to have the Deep Strike ability, so it doesn't make sense to reference them here.

The ability is specifically for detachments where it only applies to a small proportion of the available units, and where it applies no matter what type of detachment the units are in.

To be honest, I'm not happy with the second sentence at all, as it makes it sound like the unit can use the ability even if the rest of the detachment can't!

> These units are capable of rapid insertion onto the battlefield via Drop Pods, Teleportation, and other methods.

Reviewer: > the reference to Space Marine units isn't relevant as they have their own detachment-level text. The basic Space Marine unit, for example, _isn't_ going to have the Deep Strike ability, so it doesn't make sense to reference them here.

Good point, I missed that.

> To be honest, I'm not happy with the second sentence at all, as it makes it sound like the unit can use the ability even if the rest of the detachment can't!

I don't agree that it makes it sound like that — but I would agree that it doesn't make the point that you're trying to make. Which could be okay here, but would then mean we need _some_ sort of note where you originally put it. I'll stew on it some more.

> These units are capable of rapid insertion onto the battlefield via Drop Pods, Teleportation, and other methods.

Author: Maybe something like this:

```suggestion
These units specialise in rapid insertion onto the battlefield via drop pods, teleportation, or some other method.
For example, detachments of Eldar Swooping Hawks may use their anti-grav 'wings' to descend from altitude.
```

'Detachments of X' reinforces the concept that the entire detachment has to have the ability, and replaces the note.

> These units are capable of rapid insertion onto the battlefield via Drop Pods, Teleportation, and other methods.

Reviewer: Cool, that seems to cover it off well enough, let's go with that. 👍

---

Where all units in a detachment have the {deep-strike} ability:

* The detachment can deploy using the Drop Pods rule, regardless of scenario.

> [NOTE]
> ====
> This ability is used where a limited number of units in a detachment are capable of arriving via the Drop Pods rule, for example Swooping Hawks in an Eldar Warhost, or Crisis Battlesuits in a Tau Hunter Cadre.
> ====
> 

Reviewer: I think I see what you're trying to say, but it may be slightly confusing — I had to do a double-take to parse it after the earlier statement.

Ultimately, if we need to allude to example troop types then I think it's better to do this in the 'fluff' description rather than insert it as a note in the rules. However, if you feel that we ought to expand on the way that Deep Strike units appear alongside non- Deep Strike units in detachment lists, and how you can't mix if you want to use Deep Strike, then I think we should phrase this a different way that is more clear.

```suggestion
```

Author: I thought we'd used similar references to example troop types before, but I can't find an example right at the moment.

Reviewer: > I thought we'd used similar references to example troop types before, but I can't find an example right at the moment.

It wouldn't be the first time that more than one approach crept into the text for one reason or another, or no reason at all. It was the double-take that first gave me pause for thought — and then I remembered instances where we put this type of example (which applies to the whole thing) up top, and the fact that as a bonus it also helps to declutter the actual rules a bit. As in the Hero ability for example:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/34416576/200663983-ea27d749-f946-4980-848d-8469e7e74a10.png)
_(Yes, we/I capitalised Infantry and Vehicle here; standard prose should be _default_ for the descriptive section, but where we switch over from 'fluff' to rules-related 'guidance' then it makes sense to use 'rules speak'.)_

I think I rephrased the lead-in sentence a bit since I first did that double-take; but I think that my suggestion here still makes sense — both for the above reasons, and because the text still presents a slightly mixed message at first glance: That is, we have "*every* unit in your detachment" closely followed by "limited number of units in a detachment", and my mind initially read that as an incongruency (although I accept that it might just be me that is sensitive to this).

I'm not wedded to it, but this is my reasoning.

Reviewer: As at https://github.com/GameBrains/er-core/pull/36/files#r1111105849, we won't need this note so I'll apply the earlier suggestion to remove it.
